Thursday, Feb. 3: All schools closed due to weather — stay tuned for today’s asynchronous activities
Good morning, and happy snow day!
For today, please complete the three "getting to know you tasks under classwork. These are:
Name and pronoun recording
Slideshow
Class Question
These can all be found under the "For Discussion section.
Friday, Feb. 4
Agenda:
ISU Overview -- form posted for selections
Active Reading: Purpose and Audience (Saga Boy written response)
Happy Monday!
Agenda:
Please read the article "Literary Fiction vs Genre Fiction and respond to the prompt (under For Discussion)
We will go over some points about genre, then work on a collaborative task about literary eras.
Tuesday, February 8
Agenda:
Continue working on the "Literature Through the Eras task
Reminder that tomorrow we will go to the library to sign out books.
ISU Author List
Attached you'll find the approved author list for the ISU. You do not have edit access. 
If you have not yet submitted an author, please do so ASAP!
After our visit to the library, you will be asked to share your first book choice.
Leadership opportunity: WRDSB Inclusion Council Initiative
From Student Trustee
Join us at the February 9th WRDSB Student Roundtable meeting to hear more about it, and for anyone interested in becoming a member, please fill out the attached form.
Note: this is not a requirement of our course.
Wednesday, Feb. 9
Agenda:
We will meet in class, then make our way down to the library to browse and check out ISU novels. We will return to class at around 9:15am.
Provided we have time, we will begin the era presentations.
While groups are presenting, you are expected to work on the Literature Through the Eras: Round 2 task posted in the "Short Works section.
Thursday, Feb. 10
Agenda: 
Ms. G and I will be listening to and assessing group presentations in the pod.
Please work in your Literary connection response.
These responses will be due tomorrow E.O.D.
Monday, February 14
Agenda:
Please read the article and answer the question provided for you under the “For Discussion section.
Please complete the plagiarism task listed under the “Short Works section.
Work on the “Reflection” response assigned and listed under the new “Reflections section.
Tuesday, Feb. 15
Agenda:
We will take up/review the plagiarism task from yesterday.
Please read and work on the prompts for the short story "How to Escape from a Leper Colony We will discuss these questions as a class.
Leadership Opportunity!
2022-2023 Student Trustee Elections!
Please see attached link for details. Open to students in grades 10-11, and grade 12s returning for an additional year.
Wednesday, Feb. 16
Please see attached schedule.
Agenda: 
Please work on reading the story "How to Escape from a Leper Colony and adding some discussion points to the Padlet (continued from yesterday).
Should you finish, please spend some time reading your ISU novel. Your novel (and Theme Quotation Assignment) are due March 30th.
FOR ATTENDANCE: Please post a top 10 list of your absolute FAVOURITE things in this world as a comment on this post.
For this afternoon: If you would like to conference or have questions during synchronous time, please send me an email. I'll be answering live.
Thursday, February 17
Agenda:
We will discuss the short story "How to Escape from a Leper Colony and use the responses you added to the Padlet to help drive the conversations.
We will read and discuss a short essay in preparation for an "Essay Analysis Response that will be completed in class next week.
Only Daughter
Please note (for our at home friends)
Calling all creative writers
See below for the CBC Writing Contest details!
Friday, February 18
Today is a Weather Impacted Learning Day (WILD aka Snow Day)
No new work is to be assigned on a snow day. Please spend the day finishing any outstanding assignment and reading your ISU novel. Remember that ISU novels and Theme Quotation Assignments are due March 30th.
Take care of yourselves, and I’ll see you on Tuesday!
Please comment/say hello for attendance purposes!
Wednesday, February 23
Agenda:
Today we will continue working in our small groups to finish the questions from yesterday. We will take them up and discuss the upcoming celebration of learning.
Thursday, February 24
Good morning and apologies for being away! I know you were very much looking forward to our on-paper word party. We will resume this celebration tomorrow.
For today:
Please use this time to read your ISU novel and begin thinking about/working on your Thematic Quotation Assignment. This has been posted for you under the ISU section.
Please feel free to email me any questions you may have!
COURSE SELECTIONS:
A reminder to all students returning to our school in September that your 2022-2023 course selections are due in MyWay by no later than 3pm on Friday, March 4th.  Graduating students are also asked to submit your planned destination via MyWay by Friday.
NOTE: students do not need to print and hand in copies of your course selections as originally planned: guidance is now able to download your selections once MyWay closes. Students are required to have a parent and/or guardian complete the SchoolDay confirmation and/or approval form by Friday's deadline to complete your course selections (sent out last week).
Tuesday, March 1
Agenda:
Today we will continue working on our poetry activity from yesterday.
Thursday, March 3
Agenda:
Please spend some time finalizing your anchor charts and presentations.
Present your info to the class.
If there is time left over, please read your ISU/work on Theme Quotation Analysis
Friday, March 4
I'm so sorry I couldn't be at school today to see Ms. Gingrich off, as today is her last day with us! Please be sure to thank her for her thoughtful lessons and the time she spend helping us along our learning journey. We are very lucky to have such a talented and creative teacher with us! Thanks Ms. Gingrich!
Please enjoy your final day with Ms. G while reading your ISU novel and working on your Theme Quotation Analysis. Remember that this is DUE MARCH 30th!
Monday, March 7
Agenda:
We will be watching and discussing the first few scenes in Hamlet. Be ready to take some notes!
For your reading pleasure: The March edition of The Piper!
Tuesday, March 8
Agenda:
We will be exploring the remainder of Act 1.
We will collaborate and investigate key passages contained within the final two scenes of this act.
Wednesday, March 9
Agenda:
You will have a few minutes to finish up your annotations before we share your findings as a class.
We will go through Act 2. You can access the overview info under classwork.
Thursday, March 10
Agenda:
Please answer the discussion question posted under "For Discussion (re: Shakespeare)
We will work our way through Act 2 (slideshow posted yesterday)
Friday, March 11
Agenda:
We will finish listening to Act 2.2 and discuss the major ideas.
We will begin Act 3 (Scene 1) and work through the events on the attached Jamboard.
Welcome Back! I hope you all had a restful March Break.
I'll be away this week (I'm stuck isolating) but will be available most days through email.
The work for the week is contained in the "Notebook attached to this post, but the discussion and activities will only be posted the day they are meant to be completed. <-- Read that last part again
A break down of the week is as follows:
Monday: Act 3.1:
Read/listen to the scene
Read article and respond to discussion board post
Watch the monologue
Submit 1/2 page "To be, or not to be" Response
Tuesday: Act 3.2 
Read/listen to the scene
Complete the MindMap and submit
Work on questions (optional)
Wednesday -- NO IN PERSON CLASSES -- Work on ISU
Thursday: Act 3.3 & 3.4
Read/listen to the scene
Read "Sin and Salvation reading
Complete discussion board post
Begin working on Close reading
Friday: All of act 3 should be read
Complete close reading response.
If you have time, work on your ISU
Let me know if you have questions!
Tuesday, March 22
Hope everyone is doing well and adjusting to the changes happening around us.
Here is a reminder of the suggested pace for the activities for this week.
For today:
Act 3.2
Read/listen to the scene
Complete the MindMap and submit
Work on questions (optional)
Please let me know (through email or in the comments) if you find the pace too fast or slow. I always appreciate your constructive feedback.
If you're having trouble accessing the audio for Act three, here is the full Act -- let me know if it's not working!
Good Morning! Happy Asynchronous Learning Day!
For attendance purposes, please comment below:
What is one thing you can do today to make the world a better place?
Should you have questions, your teachers (including me) will be available to answer during these very precise times:
Period 1 (Block A)
Period 2 (Block B)
Period 3 (Block C)
Period 4 (Block D)
Please spend the day catching up on work (and making the world a better place)
The WRDSB has asked teacher to promote the following activity for students to complete in order to make your educational experience better. The following is a message from your school board:
Happy Thursday!
Please continue working through the Act 3 tasks assigned to you (digital notebook attached).
I'm happy to see questions from you in my email inbox as it helps me ensure your understanding the tasks assigned. 
I've been getting some questions about the ISU Theme Quote as well -- keep these coming. Next week we will have some class time to work and conference on this task as well.
It's Friday! Thank you for your continued work and patience while I'm away.
I huge thanks to our student teacher for covering this week!
I look forward to reading through your close reading assignments. Please reach out if you have any questions.
Good morning!
Monday, March 28
To commemorate our Wednesday due date for the Theme Quote Assignment, we will spend the period working on this task (and not our math or science)
Tuesday, March 29
Agenda: 
Today we will continue working on our Theme Quote Assignment.
Wednesday, March 30
Agenda:
Today we will continue working on our Theme Quote Assignment.
Thursday, March 31
Agenda:
Today we will begin working on a collaborative activity to end our play. Details can be found under classwork.
April 1st
My apologies for the absences! Another round of Covid for my family.
Agenda:
Please continue working through the final two Acts of Hamlet and collaborating on your presentations. I'll do my best to answer questions.
LHSS students who are observing Ramadan:
If you would like to access to food/beverage-free quiet library space at lunch between 11:15am -- 11:40am, please signup using the attached link.
There is a QR code posted at the doors of the library for this registration as well.
Good Monday morning everyone.
My children have shared their Covid with me, and so this means an automatic 5 days at home. My apologies!
What this means for this week:
You will still have Mon-Wed to prep your presentations.
Presentation Days Thursday/Friday:
We have 2 options. You can record and edit your presentations, but know that these would need to be shared with the class (this is how we will solidify our learning of the final two acts).
OR
We can present Monday/Tuesday and begin our essay prep Thursday/Friday. I caution that with this option we will not have had the chance to discuss/work through the final two acts together.
Please let me know your preference over in the classwork section (you'll find a post to vote)
Reminder:
Tuesday, April 5
Thank you for taking the time to respond to yesterday's question. The majority of the class has spoken, and we will record the presentations Thurs./Fri and begin our essay work next week.
When your group is ready, one program that allows for screen capture in present mode is Canva. If you create your slideshow there, you can select "present", and a drop down menu will give you an option for "present and record".
You also have access to Wevideo with your WRDSB login that would allow you to edit videos.
Something else that may work would be the Greenscreen filter on TikTok (I know I'm an old person but it should work to have your slideshow in the background) or Youtube editor (you have an automatic login with your WRDSB account for youtube editor).
Hopefully you can find something that works for your group.
If you have suggestions for other screen capture software (that's free) Please let me know in the comments.
A Message from your Principal: please complete the attached form.
Wednesday, April 6
Good morning!
Please continue to work on your Hamlet presentations. As always, if you have any questions, please feel free to send me an email!
Opportunity for Improvement: Now that you've received your Act 3 Close Reading feedback and grade,  you may have until Sat. to make any adjustments or apply the feedback received to your Theme Quote Assignment. This is completely optional.
Thursday, April 7
Good morning!
Our student teacher was kind enough to pass along some concerns that the classes may be feeling. I know essays can feel daunting, but you'll just need to trust the process.
In addition, the essay question has never really been much of a secret. You will be looking at stating the overall theme of the play and using proof from the text to support your claim. Feel free to start crafting your theme statement. We'll be working on converting them into thesis statements next week. I strongly suggest reviewing the feedback from Act 3 response in detail as well.
Please continue working on your presentations. I'm looking forward to viewing them!
Monday, April 11
I'm glad to be back with you for this short (but busy) week!
This week we will focus on writing our Hamlet essay. This essay is due Thursday without exception. Failure to submit by the due date will affect your overall midterm grade.
Today our focus will be on Thesis statements and structure.
April 12, 2022
Today we will do a quick review of the rubric and structure. Please be sure you are using your class time solely for your Hamlet essay.
Remember the due date: Thursday, April 14
April 13, 2022
Good morning,
Please continue working on your Hamlet essay. You may email any questions you have, but response time may be delayed today.
Good morning,
Today and tomorrow are instructional support days. These days are meant to support those who may have fallen behind on classwork.
Note that I will be marking most assignments these days, and if you are missing work, it is YOUR responsibility to submit it asap (today would be best). If I am missing essential assignments, you will not see a passing grade on your report card. Check the classwork section to see what you are missing and get it done!
Thursday, April 21
Agenda:
We will be visiting the library to find your second ISU novel. We will meet in class.
A reminder from the ISU overview:
Read a second novel by the same author. As you read this text, look for connections to the novel you already read by the author.
Prepare a formal comparative essay outline that links your second text to your first one.
Once you have your novel we will return to class and you may use the remainder of the time to read your new book.
Valedictorian Nominations -- Class of 2022 -- Please send in your nominations before the end of next week!
Teen Poetry & Short Story Contest: see details below!
Friday, April 22
Happy Earth Day!
Agenda:
Please complete the essay reflection and submit. (attached below)
Review the attached Hamlet Essays (shared with permission)
Dreams and Grips
Monday, April 25
Agenda:
In continuing with our activity from last week, today we will organize our ideas into categories and develop some "How might we statements.
In other news.
ISU Final essay due: May 24th
Tuesday, April 26
I want to thank you all for openly sharing your constructive feedback over the past few classes. It's been a very enlightening and humbling experience, and I hope you're able to walk away feeling heard.
Today we will wrap up our sessions with an activity to be completed pairs. I'd like you to choose one of the "How might we statements we developed yesterday and work out a more detailed approach (or potential solution) Our goal is to make this classroom space better than it was.
We will be using our anchor charts again to complete the attached "organizer and I'll ask that you briefly present your ideas (informally) to the class.
Wednesday, April 27
Happy Blended Learning Day!
Please use this time to catch up on missing work & read your ISU novel.
Thursday, April 28
Today we will finish up our anchor charts and begin presenting our ideas.
For tomorrow: be sure to bring your ISU novel to class.
Eid Mubarak! Wishing all those celebrating a very happy Eid.
May 2, 2022
Agenda:
Today will be dedicated to reading our ISU novel #2. Remember that you will be writing a formal comparative literary essay based on the two texts studied. You are to make conclusions about a common theme developed throughout the two texts.
As you take notes and collect quotations from text #2, keep in mind that a progressive style of essay is preferred. You can see the attached resources for more information on comparative essay styles.
Tuesday, May 3
Today we will be examining two poems (attached) Our purpose is to collaboratively decide on a theme statement for each, then transition into a thesis statement that would compare the two in a potential essay.
Wednesday, May 4th
Today we explored and debated the use of a collective theme statement. We will continue Friday!
Friday, May 6
Today we crafted some theses! See below.
Check out this article!
Meet your Co-Prime Candidates and vote for the top 4!
Friday, May 13th
Happy Friday the 13th!
Today will be devoted to some final feedback on our writing lessons and/or process.
We encourage you to conference with Ms. Araujo or Ms. Gingrich on your thesis and/or ISU essay.
Tuesday, May 17
Friday May 20th
We will continue conferencing and writing our ISU essays -- remember it's due May 24th!
FYI: Summer Employment
Bring back your old English books and win a $25 DQ gift card!
Please take a moment to listen to this message from your Director of Education jeewan chanicka.
Sample Essay for your enjoyment.
ESSAY A note about the essay: The due date is today, and it's my expectation that you will have this submitted by E.O.D (with the exception of those who spoke to me last week about extensions)
Note: The final date I'll accept the essay is Monday, May 30th at 11:59 pm. After this time I will not mark or include this in your coursework grade (barring any exceptional circumstances)
Contacting home: My phone calls will begin tomorrow for late essays. If you are under 18 and have not submitted your work, you can let your parents know I'll be in touch.
-- Signed, Your mean old English teacher (formerly known as Ms. Araujo)
Fish Bowl-O-Fun
Please see tentative groups and schedules attached. I will note any required changes and finalize this schedule by 8:30AM FRIDAY. This info is subject to change as we may need to make some adjustments.
Let me know ASAP of issues and I'll do my best to accommodate. I've given some space around Prom & I know the Athletic Banquet is scheduled for the 15th (but not everyone will be affected by this). Please let me know if you see an issue!
Monday, May 30th
Agenda:
Finish Propaganda Presentations
Overview/Intro to 1984
Reading (if time)
Fishbowl Question Examples:
Sample Question #1: In an article from The Atlantic, the author wrote that “We have met Big Brother and he is us In what ways is this statement true? Consider the ways in which social media operates as a controlling influence and mode of external and internal surveillance. How can the media be used to manipulate us? Have we become prisoners of our own making?
Note how the question uses a text-to-text/world connection to promote a wider breadth of discussion.
There is a direct connection to the way in which 1984 uses surveillance as a mode of control.
The questions are open-ended and designed to encourage more than a "yes or "no answer.
Sample Question #2: According to Orwell’s description, we are "the proles". O’Brien says that the proles will never revolt, yet Winston sees the proles are the only hope for change. Who is correct and why? What can we do to heed Orwell’s warnings and resist against the powers that be?
The question encourages an evaluative response in which the person answering needs to choose whether they agree or disagree with the text.
The question is specific to the events in the text, but allows for an answer that exists outside the text (a sign that it's based on an overall theme)
Reminder for tomorrow:
Please consider completing this survey for a student project. Thanks!
Do you love statistics? Well here's a bunch about WRDSB students! Enjoy.