In EXCITING news, the "Bruzzese Jar of Doom names have been selected for this year, and the unlucky individuals to help me organise Music on the instructional days are you
I'll be emailing the two names above to set up a time to come in over the next few days.
In other news, I now have "Summer Instrument Sign Out Contracts available in Music room for students who are returning to LHSS next fall. If you would like to take your instrument home for the summer, please come get one of these contracts from Music room. You cannot take the instrument until this form is filled out and handed to me.There is a section on the form that asks for the instrument/model number -- don't worry about that -- I'll fill it out when you hand in the form.
Any questions just let me know!
Congratulations on an AMAZING week of Concerts! I am so incredibly proud of all of you for your work this semester. You were all a pleasure to work with and you all grew so much over the course of the year.
The amount of compliments I've received regarding this group is countless and you should be so proud of our final products!
With our concerts being over, we will no longer have rehearsals on Thursdays. BUT! We still have Music Gala on June 13 to celebrate our accomplishments for a final time before the end of the year.
If you still have not RSVP'd -- please see my post from May 31 below!
ONE LAST THING: If you are not in a Music class currently please return your instrument/mouthpiece etc any time starting next week. This way I can figure out what I have/what I need heading into September. Please do not just put the instrument on the shelf. It needs to be returned INTO MY HANDS for it to be officially returned. That way I know it has made it's way back (because if you put it on the shelf without telling me, and somehow it disappears, you would technically be responsible for replacing it since I will go based off the name it is assigned to
Any questions? Just let me know!
NEW ANNOUNCEMENT: We will actually NOT be meeting today because of the rain -- we were going to set up outside on the stage. Please be at Music room tomorrow at 8:30am!
Amazing work last night! We sounded SO good and I received TONS of positive comments about your performance. Congrats! Reminder we are meeting today after school to figure out the set up for the Assembly. Meet me in the Music room and we'll see where Steckley needs us -- TBD if we need instruments or not
Make your way to the music room ASAP after period A. We have to quickly warm up, set up the stage and perform at 10
As long as you're ready to go when we start playing it doesn't matter to me
On Monday June 13 from 6:00-8:30pm we will be having a Music Gala here at the school celebrating our accomplishments in Music this year!
The event is open to all students who participated in a Music extra-curricular such as Senior Band, Junior Band, Choir, Guitar, Drumline and Music Council!
There will be activities planned by Music council, as well as ensemble awards presented during the evening!
Dinner will also be provided as part of the evening!
If you plan on attending, please fill out the attached Google Form. If you do not RSVP as "Attending for this event, there is no guarantee you will be provided with food. THE DEADLINE TO RSVP is JUNE 5.
If there are any questions, please reach out to any of the music teachers, or members of Music council. Hope to see you there!
Please fill out the following if you are Graduating! Soon as you can please!
IMPORTANT INFO RE: GRADE 8 days and SCHOOL ASSEMBLY
I will be signing you all out of PERIOD B on Wednesday June 1 for Grade 8 Day! Make your way down to the Music room ASAP following Period A to get your instruments and set up the stage. We will play Pick Up the Pieces 3 times for 3 different groups of Grade 8's. Please bring something to work on quietly while we are on stage as we will be sitting and hanging out for a while after performing.
On FRIDAY, I will be signing you out of PERIOD A for the school Assembly -- Come to the Music room first period of the day to get our gear and then we will head outside to set up for the assembly. I will also inform your Period B teachers to not mark you Absent since you will be down on the field with us already.
Concert wear will be relaxed -- any spirit wear is encouraged but not mandatory!
LASTLY -- Next THURSDAY after school we will be meeting for a "dress rehearsal with those running the Friday Assembly. This works out because it's during our regular rehearsal time. Come to the Music room that day and we'll figure out where we need to go!
See you next week! Remember to tell your family and friends about Concert!
Gala Announcement from Music Council! Please fill out this form ASAP!
The LHSS Music Council is planning a year-end gala for everyone involved in our school’s music community! This semi-formal event will be a celebration of all your musical achievements over the school year.
Please fill out the attached form by this Friday with your thoughts.
IMPORTANT! Please review the call times sheet to know where you need to be night of Concert!
Announcement for all Music Ensembles:
With our concert coming up soon June 1, we have entered crunch time in our groups. It is EXTREMELY important that all members attend rehearsals over these next two weeks to ensure we are ready for this show. By taking part in band you have made a commitment to this group and have a responsibility to be as prepared as possible. Unless the situation is serious -- illness or death etc -- I expect all members to be at the remaining rehearsals as well as the show in June 1. Messaging absences at the last minute is not only unprofessional, it is also unfair to the rest of the members of band who are here consistently and are prepared. A schedule of the evening and important times to be aware of will be shared in the coming days. Make sure you have concert blacks (formal top, bottoms, shoes) for this show and that you arrive well before our call time (the evening begins at 6ish)
Just an FYI -- we are still going to rehearse next Thursdays after school (even though it’s a lit test day) Have a great weekend!
CONCERT DATE ANNOUNCEMENT
Please mark down JUNE 1 EVENING in your calendars for our SPRING CONCERT. This is going to be a fun event mixed with Drama, Dance, Visual Art and of course, Music! There will be multiple shows going on throughout the evening for viewers to explore! The show will be here at the school!
More info to come soon on Show time, concert wear, etc! For now just plan to have that evening free for you and your parent/guardians!
We will be performing at the School Assembly (outdoors) on June 3 (during school -- period B)
We will perform Pick Up the Pieces as our single piece! More details to come later!
Audio File of Oleo! Click on the Speaker/Audio Icon!
Coffeehouse! Make sure to sign up if you are interested!
Yes, you are reading this correctly -- we are back and starting up TODAY after school!
Our rehearsals will be from 2:30-3:30 each Thursday after school. Just like last semester, come through the music room and get set up in the Aud as soon as you can.
We got the word yesterday that extra curriculars are back, including band!
I am going to hold off on rehearsals for next week because I want to take time to:
Get everyone instruments that needs them
Check numbers to ensure we are able to distance -- if the numbers are large I may need to make another "band
Plan music for the groups
At this point in time, plan to have our first rehearsal on Thursdays FEB 24 after school from 2:30-3:30
If you need an instrument, you can find me in the music room after school most days until 2:30. I will be here today until 3:00!
You guys are the best! Tons of compliments on your playing and I was super proud of you tonight! This group is a pleasure to work with and I'm looking forward to diving into new tunes in the new year!
Enjoy the holiday break!
Link for our YouTube channel! Concert will be at this link tomorrow at 7:30!
Just a heads up -- we will not be meeting tomorrow to paint stands as Extracurriculars are now on hold until the new year (as per Public Health instructions).
See you all when we get back!
A few people have asked me if we're meeting tomorrow for rehearsal -- let's call the next two weeks OFF since we're going to be looking at material for the new year anyway!
If you want music however for one of the songs come and find me this week and I'll hook you up with sheet music for our first piece, Shenandoah
Stay tuned for Painting party though the last week before the break!
Please fill out the following form at the request of our Feeder School Engagement committee! Your answers are greatly appreciated!
Save the date! Reminder we are recording NEXT week -- final rehearsal this Thursday before recording.
Hey all,
Just a few announcements:
Painting the stands has been postponed until further notice -- we'll keep you posted. This means we will NOT be sticking around after rehearsal tomorrow to paint
We will be recording our two pieces at our rehearsal on Dec 1 after school. You NEED to be at this rehearsal to ensure your spot in the winter concert, as well as to fulfil your commitment to your band mates. This is the ONLY time we will be recording so clear you schedule now to make sure you can be there from 2:15-3:30 on this day
On that day you are to wear CONCERT BLACKS (that is a black buttoned top, black pants, black socks, black shoes) You don't need to wear them all day, but need to be dressed and in your seat asap after school.
Any questions or concerns please let me know
First order of business -- PLEASE FILL OUT THIS FORM ASAP
You will not be able to attend Band until you fill this out. Our school is asking that all clubs collect this info prior to meeting for contact tracing purposes.
Thanks!
Welcome to Thursday Band! (We can brainstorm a new name at our first rehearsal lol)
Please go over the attached Band letter with your parent(s)/guardians and take note of the Band fee which is to be paid on School Day. It is not set up but will be in the near future -- we will keep you posted on that.
Our First Rehearsal will be next Thursday (October 21) from 2:15-3:15. Meet in the Music Room and we will re-locate to the Auditorium. If you don't have an instrument yet (not in class, don't own your own etc) I will set you up with a mouthpiece if required as well as assign you an instrument for the semester ON THURSDAY. Please show up asap however so we can get to playing sooner!
Any questions ask here or shoot me an email. See you then!